---
title: "Contributor License"
---
<h3>Licensing</h3>
<p>You can find the full license agreement <a href="index.php?option=com_content&amp;view=article&amp;id=56:full-license&amp;Itemid=165">here</a>.</p>
<p>&nbsp;</p>
<pre>"Contribution" means: <br />  a) in the case of the initial Contributor, the initial <br />     code and documentation distributed under OSMC-PL, and<br />  b) in the case of each subsequent Contributor:<br />       i) changes to OpenModelica, and<br />       ii) additions to OpenModelica;<br />     where such changes and/or additions to OpenModelica originate from and are distributed by <br />     that particular Contributor. A Contribution 'originates' from a Contributor if it was added <br />     to OpenModelica by such Contributor itself or anyone acting on such Contributor's behalf. <br /><br />For Contributors licencing OpenModelica under OSMC-Internal-EPL or OSMC-External-EPL conditions, <br />the following conditions also hold:  <br />  Contributions do not include additions to the distributed Program which: <br />   (i)   are separate modules of software distributed in conjunction <br />         with OpenModelica under their own license agreement, <br />   (ii)  are separate modules which are not derivative works of OpenModelica, and<br />   (iii) are separate modules of software distributed in conjunction with OpenModelica <br />         under their own license agreement where these separate modules are merged with <br />         (weaved together with) modules of OpenModelica to form new modules that are <br />         distributed as object code or source code under their own license agreement, <br />         as allowed under the Additional Condition of internal distribution according <br />         to OSMC-Internal-EPL and/or Additional Condition for external distribution <br />         according to OSMC-External-EPL.<br /><br />"Transfer of Contribution Copyright" means that <br /> the Contributors of a Contribution transfer the ownership and the copyright of the Contribution <br /> to Linköpings universitet, the OpenModelica Copyright owner, for inclusion in OpenModelica. <br /> The transfer takes place upon the effective date when the Contribution is made available on <br /> the OSMC web site under OSMC-PL, by such Contributors themselves or anyone acting on such <br /> Contributors' behalf. The transfer is free of charge. If the Contributors or OSMC so wish, <br /> an optional Copyright transfer agreement can be signed between OSMC and the Contributors, <br /> as specified in an Appendix of the OSMC Bylaws.<br /><br />"Contribution License" means a license from OSMC to the Contributors of the Contribution, effective <br /> on the date of the Transfer of Contribution Copyright, where OSMC grants the Contributors a non-exclusive, <br /> world-wide, transferable, free of charge, perpetual license, including sublicensing rights, to use, <br /> have used, modify, have modified, reproduce and or have reproduced the contributed material, for <br /> business and other purposes, including but not limited to evaluation, development, testing, <br /> integration and merging with other software and distribution. The warranty and liability disclaimers <br /> of OSMC-PL applies to this license.<br /><br />"Contributor" means any person or entity that distributes (part of) OpenModelica.</pre>
<p>&nbsp;</p>