---
title: "June 15: OpenModelica 1.9.0 final release"
---
<p>The OpenModelica 1.9.0  has been released. You can find the Windows builds here. The Linux and MacOS builds are available via the Download menu above.</p>
<p>Many thanks to everybody who contributed!</p>
<h1><span style="mso-list:Ignore">A.1<span style="font:7.0pt "> </span></span>OpenModelica 1.9.0, June 2013</h1>
<p class="MsoBodyText">The OpenModelica 1.9.0 beta4 release has a more complete OMC model compiler. It simulates many more models than the previous 1.8.1 version and 1.9.0 beta releases. This is the first release that simulates many (58%) of the MSL 3.2.1 Fluid models. Regarding the whole MSL 3.2.1, 233 out of 253 example models now simulate (92%) compared to 118 in the beta2 release Oct 20, and 30% in the 1.9.0 beta1 release. There is also partial support for some other libraries like ThermoSysPro. It also contains a further improved ModelicaML version for the latest Eclipse and Papyrus releases.<span lang="EN-US"> </span></p>
<h2 class="Appendix3" style="mso-list:l0 level3 lfo1"><span style="mso-list: Ignore;">A.1.1<span style="font:7.0pt "> </span></span>OpenModelica Compiler (OMC)</h2>
<ul>
</ul>
<p>•A more stable and complete OMC model compiler. The 1.9.0 final version simulates many more models than the previous 1.8.1 version and OpenModelica 1.9.0 beta versions.<br /> <br /> •Much better simulation support for MSL 3.2.1, now 260 out of 273 example models compile (95%) and 237 (87%) simulate, compared to 30% simulating in the 1.9.0 beta1 release.<br /> <br /> •Much better simulation for the ModelicaTest 3.2.1 library, now 359 out of 408 models simulate (88%), compared to 32% in November 2012.<br /> <br /> •Improved tearing algorithm for the compiler backend. Tearing is by default used.<br /> <br /> •Much faster matching and dynamic state selection algorithms for the compiler backend.<br /> <br /> •New index reduction algorithm implementation.<br /> <br /> •New default initialization method that symbolically solves the initialization problem much faster and more accurately. This is the first version that in general initialize hybrid models correctly.<br /> <br /> •Better class loading from files. The package.order file is now respected and the file structure is more thoroughly examined.<br /> <br /> •Basic support for pure/impure functions.<br /> <br /> •It is now possible to translate the error messages in the omc kernel.<br /> <br /> •Enhanced ModelicaML version with support for value bindings in requirements-driven modeling available for the latest Eclipse and Papyrus versions. GUI specific adaptations. Automated model composition workflows (used for model-based design verification against requirements) are modularized and have improved in terms of performance.<br /> <br /> •FMI for co-simulation with OMC as master. Improved FMI import/export, model exchange.<br /> <br /> •Checking (when possible) that variables have been assigned to before they are used in algorithmic code.<br /> <br /> •Full version of Python scripting.<br /> <br /> •3D graphics visualization using the Modelica3D library.<br /> <br /> •PySimulator integration with OpenModelica compiler.<br /> <br /> •Prototype support for uncertainty computations, special feature enabled by special flag.<br /> <br /> •Parallel algorithmic Modelica support (ParModelica) for efficient portable parallel algorithmic programming based on the OpenCL standard, for CPUs and GPUs.<br /> <br /> •Support for optimisation of semiLinear according to MSL 3.3 chapter 3.7.2.5 semiLinear.</p>
<ul>
</ul>
<p> </p>
<h2 class="Appendix3" style="mso-list:l0 level3 lfo1"><span style="mso-list: Ignore;">A.1.2<span style="font:7.0pt "> </span></span> Other OpenModelica Subsystems</h2>
<p class="MsoBodyText"><strong><em><span lang="EN-US">OpenModelica Notebook (OMNotebook)</span></em></strong><span lang="EN-US">. A </span><span class="CODE"><span style="font-size:9.5pt" lang="EN-US">shortOutput</span></span><span lang="EN-US"> option has been introduced in the simulate command for less verbose output. The DrModelica interactive document has been updated and the models tested. Almost all models now simulate with OpenModelica.</span></p>
<p class="MsoBodyText"><strong><em><span lang="EN-US">OpenModelica Eclipse Plug-in (MDT)</span></em></strong><em><span lang="EN-US">. </span></em><span lang="EN-US">Enhanced debugger for algorithmic Modelica code, supporting both standard Modelica algorithmic code called from simulation models, and MetaModelica code.</span></p>
<p class="MsoBodyText"><strong><em><span lang="EN-US">OpenModelica Development Environment (OMDev.)</span></em></strong><span lang="EN-US"> Migration of version handling and configuration management from CodeBeamer to Trac.</span></p>
<p class="MsoBodyText"><strong><em><span lang="EN-US">Graphic Editor OMEdit</span></em></strong><span lang="EN-US">:</span></p>
<p class="BulletItemFirst" style="mso-list:l1 level1 lfo2"><span style="font-family: Symbol;" lang="EN-US"><span style="mso-list: Ignore;">·<span style="font:7.0pt "> </span></span></span><span lang="EN-US">Options to set matching algorithm and index reduction method for simulation.</span></p>
<p class="BulletItem" style="mso-list:l1 level1 lfo2"><span style="font-family: Symbol;" lang="EN-US"><span style="mso-list: Ignore;">·<span style="font:7.0pt "> </span></span></span><span lang="EN-US">Backward and Forward navigation support in Documentation view.</span></p>
<p><span style="font-family:Symbol" lang="EN-US"><span style="mso-list: Ignore;">·<span style="font:7.0pt "> </span></span></span><span lang="EN-US">Output window for simulations.</span></p>
<p class="BulletItem" style="mso-list:l1 level1 lfo2"><span style="font-family: Symbol;" lang="EN-US"><span style="mso-list: Ignore;">·<span style="font:7.0pt "> </span></span></span><span lang="EN-US">Preserving user customizations.</span></p>
<p class="BulletItem" style="mso-list:l1 level1 lfo2"><span style="font-family: Symbol;" lang="EN-US"><span style="mso-list: Ignore;">·<span style="font:7.0pt "> </span></span></span><span lang="EN-US">Show dummy red box for models with no graphical annotations.</span></p>
<p class="MsoBodyText"><strong><em><span lang="EN-US">FMI Support</span></em></strong><span lang="EN-US">. FMI co-simulation with OpenModelica as master. Improved FMI Import.</span></p>
<p class="MsoNormal"><span style="font-size:11.0pt;font-family:" lang="EN-US"> </span></p>